---
id: version-1.0.0-standard-exits
title: Start a Standard Exit
sidebar_label: Start a Standard Exit
original_id: standard-exits
---

Exits allow a user to withdraw funds from the OMG Network back onto the root chain. There are two types of exit: standard exits and in-flight exits. This section will cover standard exits.

A standard exit can be initiated by a user for an output generated by a transaction that was included in a valid block.

## Implementation

For starting a standard exit, the following steps are needed:
1. Check the exit queue for exiting token availability.
2. Get the exiting UTXO's information.
3. Start a standard exit.

> The standard exit process is the same for both ETH and ERC20 UTXOs.

## Example

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!-- JavaScript -->
```js
async function startStandardExit () {
  // check for the existence of an exit queue for a given token
  const queueForTokenExists = await rootChain.hasToken(<CURRENCY>)
  if (!queueForTokenExists) {
    // add the exit queue for this token if it doesn't exist
    return rootChain.addToken({
      token: <CURRENCY>,
      txOptions: {
        from: <ALICE_ETH_ADDRESS>,
        privateKey: <ALICE_ETH_ADDRESS_PRIVATE_KEY>
      }
    })
  }

  // get utxo information
  const alicesUtxos = await childChain.getUtxos(<ALICE_ETH_ADDRESS>)
  const exitData = await childChain.getExitData(alicesUtxos)

  // start a standard exit
  rootChain.startStandardExit({
    utxoPos: exitData.utxo_pos,
    outputTx: exitData.txbytes,
    inclusionProof: exitData.proof,
    txOptions: {
      from: <ALICE_ETH_ADDRESS>,
      privateKey: <ALICE_ETH_ADDRESS_PRIVATE_KEY>
    }
  })
}
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Lifecycle

1. The `hasToken` function calls `PlasmaFramework` to check if there's an exit queue for the token in question. If no exit queue is registered, a user needs to register it using the `addToken` function. The corresponding `PlasmaFramework` contract functions used in this step are `hasExitQueue` and `addExitQueue`.
2. The `getExitData` function calls a Watcher to get the necessary exit data to start a standard exit. A transaction is termed exitable if it is correctly formed and properly signed by the owner(s) of the transaction input(s).
3. The `startStandardExit` function calls a `PaymentExitGame` smart contract and commits an [exit bond](exitbonds) to the exit.
4. After a [challenge period](challenge-period) a user can [process](process-exits) this exit.

> You can only exit one UTXO at a time. It is therefore recommended to [merge your UTXOs](managing-utxos) if you would like to exit multiple ones.

## Real-World Code Sample

This section provides a demo project that contains a detailed implementation of the tutorial. If you consider integrating with the OMG Network, you can use this sample to significantly reduce the time of development. It also provides step-by-step instructions and sufficient code guidance that is not covered on this page.

### JavaScript

For running a full `omg-js` code sample for the tutorial, please use the following steps:

1. Clone [OMG Samples](https://github.com/omisego/omg-samples) repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/omisego/omg-samples.git
```

2. Enter the root of `omg-js` folder:

```
cd omg-js
```

3. Install dependencies:

```
npm install
```

4. Create `.env` file and provide the [required configuration values](https://github.com/omisego/omg-samples/tree/master/omg-js#setup).

5. Run the app:

```
npm run start
```

6. Open your browser at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). 

7. Select [`Start a Standard ETH Exit`](https://github.com/omisego/omg-samples/tree/master/omg-js/app/05-exit-standard-eth) or [`Start a Standard ERC20 Exit`](https://github.com/omisego/omg-samples/tree/master/omg-js/app/05-exit-standard-erc20) on the left side, observe the logs on the right.

> Code samples for all tutorials use the same repository — `omg-samples`, thus skip steps 1-4 if you've set up the project already.
